services/rtes/README.md, before:

# RTES - Rune Token Execution Service

RTES is a microservice responsible for handling executions and real-time events within the Rune ecosystem. It consumes events from a message queue, stores them for history retention, and provides real-time capabilities.

## API

- Realtime: `ws://localhost:8080/rt` (requires `Authorization: Bearer <token>`; also accepts `Authorization: token`)
- Execution lookup: `http://localhost:8080/executions/{execution_id}` (requires `Authorization: Bearer <token>`; also accepts `Authorization: token`)

- The realtime stream first loads every node state already persisted for the requested execution before relaying live updates that arrive afterwards, so clients immediately get the current graph followed by incremental events.

## Limitations

- **Split Node Executions**: Currently, split node executions (parallel branches/loops) are **not supported**. Any workflow utilizing these features will result in corrupted execution data within this service.

## Tech Stack

- **Language**: Rust (2024 edition)
- **Web Framework**: [Axum](https://github.com/tokio-rs/axum)
- **Async Runtime**: [Tokio](https://tokio.rs/)
- **Messaging**: [Lapin](https://github.com/clevercloud/lapin) (RabbitMQ)
- **Storage**: [Redis](https://github.com/redis-rs/redis-rs)
- **Telemetry**: [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) & [Tracing](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat(frontend): workflow executions (#271)
Enables the frontend to display workflow executions with real-time
updates and historical data.

**Frontend:** Execution UI with status indicators, real-time node
updates via RTES WebSocket, and in-canvas history panel to view past
runs.

**API:** Execution token service publishes auth tokens to Redis via
RabbitMQ, allowing RTES to validate requests.

**RTES:** HTTP endpoints for fetching executions (GET
/workflows/{id}/executions, GET /executions/{id}).

**Infra:** Docker/nginx configs updated for RTES routing.

---

The following should be added in follow-up PRs:
- Single-node executions: Allow users to execute individual nodes from
the canvas, rather than running the entire workflow.
- GET /executions endpoint: List all executions across workflows for a
dedicated executions page, currently only workflow-scoped queries are
supported. This should be handled by the RTES.
- History workflow data preservation: RTES should also preserve workflow
data, currently the history display does not handle workflow graph
updates, since it only retrieves execution payload.

---------

Co-authored-by: Youssef Ahmed Mohamed Abdelrahman <109446360+unauthorised-401@users.noreply.github.com>

services/rtes/README.md, after:

# RTES - Rune Token Execution Service

RTES is a microservice responsible for handling executions and real-time events within the Rune ecosystem. It consumes events from a message queue, stores them in MongoDB for history retention, and provides real-time capabilities via WebSocket.

## API

All endpoints require `Authorization: Bearer <jwt_token>` header (also accepts `Authorization: <token>` directly).

- **Real-time WebSocket**: `ws://localhost:8080/rt/{execution_id}`
- **Get execution**: `GET http://localhost:8080/executions/{execution_id}`
- **List workflow executions**: `GET http://localhost:8080/workflows/{workflow_id}/executions`

The WebSocket stream first loads every node state already persisted for the requested execution before relaying live updates that arrive afterwards, so clients immediately get the current graph followed by incremental events.

## Authorization

Before accessing any endpoint, the API service must publish an `ExecutionToken` to the `execution.token` RabbitMQ queue:

```json
{
  "user_id": "user-uuid",
  "workflow_id": "workflow-uuid",
  "execution_id": "exec-uuid-or-null",
  "iat": 1702857600,
  "exp": 1702861200
}
```

Set `execution_id` to `null` for wildcard access to all executions within a workflow.

## Limitations

- **Split Node Executions**: Currently, split node executions (parallel branches/loops) are **not supported**. Any workflow utilizing these features will result in corrupted execution data within this service.

## Tech Stack

- **Language**: Rust (2024 edition)
- **Web Framework**: [Axum](https://github.com/tokio-rs/axum)
- **Async Runtime**: [Tokio](https://tokio.rs/)
- **Messaging**: [Lapin](https://github.com/clevercloud/lapin) (RabbitMQ)
- **Storage**: [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) & [Redis](https://github.com/redis-rs/redis-rs)
- **Telemetry**: [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) & [Tracing](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing)

## License

MIT
